---
out: Changes.html
---

  [ChangeSummary_0.13.0]: ChangeSummary_0.13.0.html

Changes
-------

### 0.13.5-RC1 to 0.13.5-RC2

-   Fixes auto plugins not detecting `object autoImport`. (gh-1314)

### 0.13.2 to 0.13.5

-   The Scala version for sbt and sbt plugins is now 2.10.4. This is a
    compatible version bump.
-   Added a new setting `testResultLogger` to allow customisation of
    logging of test results. (gh-1225)
-   When `test` is run and there are no tests available, omit logging
    output. Especially useful for aggregate modules. `test-only` et al
    unaffected. (gh-1185)
-   sbt now uses minor-patch version of ivy 2.4
    (org.scala-sbt.ivy:ivy:2.4.0-sbt-<git sha>)
-   `sbt.Plugin` deprecated in favor of `sbt.AutoPlugin`
-   name-hashing incremental compiler now supports scala macros.
-   `testResultLogger` is now configured.
-   sbt-server hooks for task cancellation.
-   Add `JUnitXmlReportPlugin` which generates junit-xml-reports for all
    tests.

### 0.13.1 to 0.13.2

-   Adding new name-hashing feature to incremental compiler. Alters how
    scala dependencies are tracked, reducing number of recompiles
    necessary.
-   Added the ability to launch servers via the sbt-launcher.
-   Added `.previous` feature on tasks which can load the pervious
    value.
-   Added an `all` command which can run more than tasks in parallel.
-   Exposed the 'overwrite' flags from ivy. Added warning if overwriting
    a release version.
-   Improve the error message when credentials are not found in Ivy.
-   Improve task macros to handle more scala constructs.
-   Fix `last` and `export` tasks to read from the correct stream.
-   Fix issue where ivy's `.+` dependency ranges were not correctly
    translated to maven.
-   Override security manager to ignore file permissions (performance
    issue)
-   2.11 compatibility fixes
-   Launcher can now handle ivy's `.+` revisions.
-   SessionSettings now correctly overwrite existing settings.
-   Adding a simple Logic system for inclusionary/dependency logic of
    plugins.
-   Improve build hooks for `LoggerReporter` and `TaskProgress`.
-   Serialize incremental compiler analysis into text-file format.
-   Issue a warning when generating Paths and separate already exists in
    the path.
-   Migrate to Ivy 2.3.0-final.
-   Docs: Use bintray as default repository host
-   Docs: improved docs on test groups.
-   Docs: updated documentation on the Launcher.
-   Docs: started architecture document.

### 0.13.0 to 0.13.1

-   The Scala version for sbt and sbt plugins is now 2.10.3. This is a
    compatible version bump.
-   New method `toTask` on `Initialize[InputTask[T]]` to apply the full
    input and get a plain task out.
-   Improved performance of `inspect tree`
-   Work around various issues with Maven local repositories, including
    resolving -SNAPSHOTs from them. (gh-321)
-   Better representation of no cross-version suffix in suffix conflict
    error message: now shows `<none>` instead of just `_`
-   `TrapExit` support for multiple, concurrent managed applications.
    Now enabled by default for all `run`-like tasks. (gh-831)
-   Add minimal support for class file formats 51.0, 52.0 in incremental
    compiler. (gh-842)
-   Allow main class to be non-public. (gh-883)
-   Convert `-classpath` to `CLASSPATH` when forking on Windows and
    length exceeds a heuristic maximum. (gh-755)
-   `scalacOptions` for `.scala` build definitions are now also used for
    `.sbt` files
-   `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug` commands to set log level and
    `--error`, ... to set the level before the project is loaded.
    (gh-806)
-   `sLog` settings that provides a `Logger` for use by settings.
    (gh-806)
-   Early commands: any command prefixed with `--` gets moved before
    other commands on startup and doesn't force sbt into batch mode.
-   Deprecate internal `-`, `--`, and `---` commands in favor of `onFailure`,
    `sbtClearOnFailure`, and `resumeFromFailure`.
-   `makePom` no longer generates `<type>` elements for standard
    classifiers. (gh-728)
-   Fix many instances of the Turkish i bug.
-   Read https+ftp proxy environment variables into system properties
    where Java will use them. (gh-886)
-   The `Process` methods that are redirection-like no longer discard
    the exit code of the input. This addresses an inconsistency with
    `Fork`, where using the `CustomOutput` `OutputStrategy` makes the
    exit code always zero.
-   Recover from failed `reload` command in the scripted sbt handler.
-   Parse external `pom.xml` with `CustomPomParser` to handle multiple
    definitions. (gh-758)
-   Improve key collision error message (gh-877)
-   Display the source position of an undefined setting.
-   Respect the `-nowarn` option when compiling Scala sources.
-   Improve forked test debugging by listing tests run by sbt in debug
    output. (gh-868)
-   Fix scaladoc cache to track changes to `-doc-root-content` (gh-837)
-   Incremental compiler: Internal refactoring in preparation for
    name-hashing (gh-936)
-   Incremental compiler: improved cache loading/saving speed by
    internal file names (gh-931)
-   Docs: many contributed miscellaneous fixes and additions
-   Docs: link to page source now at the bottom of the page
-   Docs: sitemap now automatically generated
-   Docs: custom
    role enables links from a key name in the docs to the val in [Keys](../sxr/sbt/Keys.scala)
-   Docs: restore sxr support and fix links to sxr'd sources. (gh-863)

### 0.12.4 to 0.13.0

The changes for 0.13.0 are listed on a separate page. See
[sbt 0.13.0 changes][ChangeSummary_0.13.0].

