---
out: Developers-Guide.html
---

  [pickling]: https://github.com/scala/pickling
  [HowCanIHelp]: http://www.scala-sbt.org/community.html#how-can-I-help
  [Sbt-Launcher]: Sbt-Launcher.html
  [Compiler-Interface]: Compiler-Interface.html
  [launcher-inject]: https://github.com/sbt/sbt/blob/0.13/project/SbtLauncherPlugin.scala#L24-L34

Developer's Guide (Work in progress)
------------------------------------

This is the set of documentation about the future architecture of sbt.
The target audience of this document is the sbt plugin authors
and sbt developers. See also [How can I help?][HowCanIHelp]

### Currently Modularized

Here is a list of projects that have already been modularized 

#### [sbt/serialization](https://github.com/sbt/serialization)

sbt serialization is an opinionated wrapper around [Scala Pickling][pickling] focused on sbt's usage.

#### [launcher][Sbt-Launcher]

The sbt launcher provides a generic container that can load and run
programs resolved using the Ivy dependency manager. Sbt uses this as its
own deployment mechanism. (Hosted at [sbt/launcher](https://github.com/sbt/launcher))

The sbt launcher provides two parts:

1. An interface for launched applications to interact with the launcher code
2. A minimal sbt-launch.jar that can launch application by resolving them
   through ivy.

The launch jar will look in its own classpath for a boot properties file.  The 
[sbt/sbt](https://github.com/sbt/sbt) project then pulls in the raw JAR and
[injects the appropriate boot.properties files for sbt](launcher-inject).

#### [compiler-interface][Compiler-Interface]

The compiler interface is the part of sbt that is recompiled against the version of
the Scala compiler that is used to compile your projects.

It is in charge of extracting information from your source code by walking the compiled
trees and is therefore very sensitive to the Scala version in use.

### Plans for modularization

The process we aim to take for sbt 1.0 is to disassemble sbt into small modules.
To be clear sbt 0.13's codebase already does consists of numerous subprojects.

Here's what we envision the modilarization process to look like:

- pull apart subprojects by feature
- make separate Github repositories
- distinguish public API and internal implemention
- document the usages
- clean up the code since we can break bincompat
- publish to Maven

Here are some of the pending modularization we'd like to do.


#### [sbt/sbt-remote-control](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-remote-control)

sbt-remote-control is the project name for sbt client-server via JSON API.


### Client API + Protocol

We plan to fragment the protocol and client APIs into their own module.  These
APIs will define a "nearly forever" compatible protocol for interacting with any
sbt-server.  Included in this portion of code are protocol stability tests.
We'd also like to create a set of re-usable semantic tests for use when
building sbt/sbt.

### Sbt Server

This module we plan to unify with the sbt/sbt project, after it has
fully stabilized.

#### [sbt/website](https://github.com/sbt/website)

This website's source.

#### [sbt/sbt](https://github.com/sbt/sbt)

Most of the sbt codebase still lives here.
Here are some of the potential modules we can pull out.

#### Compiler API

At the core of sbt is the incremental compiler of Scala. This API is so fundamental,
that we now seldom think of it as a feature of sbt.
There are number of subprojects/classes involved that are actually internal details
that we should use this opportunity to hide.

#### Library management API

sbt's library management system is based on Apache Ivy, and the concepts and
terminology around library management system is borrowed from Apache Ivy.
However in 0.13.x technology preview series there has been a number of improvements
that goes beyond wrapping Ivy, namely cached resolution and Maven repository resolver.

#### IO API

Low level API to deal with files and directories.

#### Completion API

Combinator parser with tab completion.

#### Task DSL

This is the part that's exposed to `build.sbt`.

### Towards sbt 1.0

On 2008-12-18, Mark Harrah announced sbt 0.3.2 as the initial release of sbt.
Mark remained the primary author of sbt until sbt 0.13.1 (2013-12-11).
In 2014, sbt project was handed over to the authors of this document Josh Suereth
and Eugene Yokota.

As we move towards sbt 1.0, we wish to stablize what's already stable
and innovate where it matters. There are several levels of stability:

- conceptual stability
- source compatibility of the build defnition
- binary compatibility of the plugins

#### Concepts

Concepturally we are stable on what sbt does:

1. incremental compilation that supports Scala
2. dependency management that's aware of Scala's binary compatibility
3. task and plugins system that's extensible using Scala
4. a text-based interactive shell

The only thing that will change is the last point.
In sbt 1.0, we will replace the interactive shell with sbt server
that's accessible via JSON API and a text-based client.

#### Source compatibility of the build deinition

Source compatibility means that a build source that worked for sbt version A
works for another version B without modification.
Our goal for sbt 1.0 is to adopt Semantic Versioning, and maintain
source compatibility of the build during 1.x.y.

#### Binary compatibility of the plugins

Binary compatibility ("bincompat") of the plugins means that a plugin
that was published  for sbt version A works for another version B without recompilaition.
sbt 0.13 has kept binary compatibility for 18 months as of March 2015.
The stability here helps maintaining sbt plug ecosystem.
Our goal for sbt 1.0 is to adopt Semantic Versioning, and maintain
binary compatibility of the build during 1.x.y.

From the development perspective, maintaining binary compatibility becomes
an additional constraint that we need to worry about whenever we make changes.
The of the problem is that sbt 0.13 does not distinguish between public API
and internal impelmentation. Most things are open to plugins.
