---
out: Coding-Guideline.html
---

  [jsuereth2012]: http://jsuereth.com/scala/2012/04/22/scaladays.html
  [pins_trait127]: http://www.artima.com/pins1ed/traits.html#12.7
  [mima]: https://github.com/typesafehub/migration-manager

sbt Coding Guideline
--------------------

This page discusses the coding style and other guidelines for sbt 1.0.

### General goal

sbt 1.0 will primarily target Scala 2.11.
We will cross build against Scala 2.10.

#### Clean up old deprecation

Before 1.0 is release, we should clean up deprecations.

#### Aim for zero warnings (except deprecation)

On Scala 2.11 we should aim for zero warnings.
One exception may be deprecation if it's required for 2.10 cross building.

### Modular design

#### Aim small

The fewer methods we can expose to the build user, the easier it becomes to maintain it.

#### Public APIs should be coded against "interfaces"

Code against interface.

#### Hide implementation details

The implementation details should be hidden behind `sbt.internal.x` package,
where `x` could be the name of the main package (like `io`).

#### Depend less

Making independent modules with fewer dependent libraries make it easier to reuse them.

#### Hide external classes

Avoid exposing external classes out to API, except for standard Scala and Java classes.

#### Hide internal modules

A module may be declared internal if there's no use for public.

#### Compiler flags

```
-encoding utf8
-deprecation
-feature
-unchecked
-Xlint
-language:higherKinds
-language:implicitConversions
-Xfuture
-Yinline-warnings
-Yno-adapted-args
-Ywarn-dead-code
-Ywarn-numeric-widen
-Ywarn-value-discard
-Xfatal-warnings
```

The `-Xfatal-warnings` may be removed if there are unavoidable warnings.

#### Package name and organization name

Use the package name appended with the layer name, such as `sbt.io` for IO layer.
The organization name for the publish artifacts should remain `org.scala-sbt`.

### Binary resiliency

A good overview on the topic of binary resiliency is [Josh's 2012][jsuereth2012] talk
Binary resiliency.
The guideline here applies mostly to publicly exposed APIs.

#### MiMa

Use [MiMa][mima].

#### Public traits should contain `def` declarations only

- `val` or `var` in `trait` results to codegen at subclass and at the artificial `Foo\$class.\$init\$`.
- `lazy val` results to codegen at subclass

#### Abstract classes are also useful

[To trait, or not to trait?][pins_trait127].
It is less flexible compared to trait, but easier to maintain binary compatibility. It also has better Java interop.

#### Seal the traits and abstract classes

If there's no need to keep the classes open, seal it.

#### Finalize the leaf classes

If there's no need to keep the classes open, finalize it.

#### Typeclass and subclass inheritance

Typeclass pattern with pure trait might be easier to maintain binary compatibility than subclassing.

#### Avoid case classes, use sbt-datatype

case class involves various codegen, which makes it harder to maintain binary compatibility over time.

#### Prefer method overloading over default parameter values

The default parameter values are effectively codegen,
which makes it difficult to maintain.

### Other public API matter

Here are other guidelines about public API.

#### Avoid Stringly-typed programming

Define datatypes.

#### Avoid overuse of `def apply`

`def apply` should be reserved for factory methods
in a companion object that returns type `T`.

#### Use specific datatype (`Vector`, `List`, or `Array`) rather than `Seq`.

`scala.Seq` is `scala.collection.Seq`, which is not immutable.
Default to `Vector`. Use `List` if constant prepending is needed.
Use `Array` if Java interop is needed.
Note using mutable collection is perfectly fine within the implementation.

#### Avoid calling `toSeq` or anything side-effecty on `Set`

`Set` is fine if you stick with set operations, like `contains` and `subsetOf`.
More often than not, `toSeq` is called explicitly or implicitly,
or some side effecting method is called from `map`.
This introduces non-determinism to the code.

#### Avoid calling `toSeq` on `Map`

Same as above. That will introduce non-determinism.

#### Avoid functions and tuples in the signature, if Java interop is needed

Instead of functions and tuples, turn them into a trait.
This is if Java interop is a concern, like implementing
incremental compiler.

### Style matter

#### Use scalariform

sbt-houserules comes with scalariform.

#### Avoid procedure syntax

Return `Unit`.

#### Typeclass instances are encouraged to be defined in the companions

```scala
final class FooID {}
object FooID {
  implicit val fooIdPicklerUnpicker: PicklerUnpickler[FooID] = ???
}
```

#### Implicit converter for syntax (enrich-my-library) should be imported

Avoid defining implicit converters in companion objects and package objects.

Suppose IO module introduces `URL` enrichment called `RichURI`;
and LibraryManagement introduces `String` enrichment called `GroupID` (for `ModuleID` syntax).
These implicit converters should be defined in a trait named `IOSyntax` and `LibraryManagementSyntax` respectively:

```scala
package sbt.io

trait IOSyntax {
  implicit def uriToRichURI(uri: URI): RichURI = new RichURI(uri)
}
```

Next each layer should define an object named `syntax`:

```scala
package sbt.io

object syntax extends IOSyntax
```

When all the layers are available, `sbt` package should also define an object called `syntax`:

```scala
package sbt

object syntax extends IOSyntax with LibraryManagementSyntax with ...
```
