---
out: Coding-Guideline.html
---

  [jsuereth2012]: http://jsuereth.com/scala/2012/04/22/scaladays.html
  [pins_trait127]: http://www.artima.com/pins1ed/traits.html#12.7
  [mima]: https://github.com/lightbend/migration-manager

sbt Coding Guideline
--------------------

This page discusses the coding style and other guidelines for sbt 1.0.

### General goal

sbt 1.0 will primarily target Scala 2.12.
We will cross-build against Scala 2.10.

#### Clean up old deprecation

Before 1.0 is release, we should clean up deprecations.

#### Aim for zero warnings (except deprecation)

On Scala 2.12 we should aim for zero warnings.
One exception may be deprecation if it's required for cross-building.

### Documentation

> It is often useful to start with the Scaladoc before fleshing out a trait/class implementation by forcing you to consider the need for its existence.

All newly introduced **public** traits and classes and, to a lesser extent, functions and methods, should have Scaladoc. A significant amount of existing sbt code lacks documentation and we need to repair this situation over time. If you see an opportunity to add some documentation, or improve existing documentation then this will also help.

Package level documentation is a great place to describe how various components interact, so please consider adding/enhancing that where possible.

For more information on good Scaladoc style, please refer to the [Scaladoc Style Guide](https://docs.scala-lang.org/style/scaladoc.html)

### Modular design

#### Aim small

The fewer methods we can expose to the build user, the easier sbt becomes to maintain.

#### Public APIs should be coded against "interfaces"

Code against interfaces.

#### Hide implementation details

The implementation details should be hidden behind `sbt.internal.x` packages,
where `x` could be the name of the main package (like `io`).

#### Less interdependence

Independent modules with fewer dependent libraries are easier to reuse.

#### Hide external classes

Avoid exposing external classes in the API, except for standard Scala and Java classes.

#### Hide internal modules

A module may be declared internal if it has no use to the public.

#### Compiler flags

```
-encoding utf8
-deprecation
-feature
-unchecked
-Xlint
-language:higherKinds
-language:implicitConversions
-Xfuture
-Yinline-warnings
-Yno-adapted-args
-Ywarn-dead-code
-Ywarn-numeric-widen
-Ywarn-value-discard
-Xfatal-warnings
```

The `-Xfatal-warnings` may be removed if there are unavoidable warnings.

#### Package name and organization name

Use the package name appended with the layer name, such as `sbt.io` for IO layer.
The organization name for published artifacts should remain `org.scala-sbt`.

### Binary resiliency

A good overview on the topic of binary resiliency is [Josh's 2012 talk][jsuereth2012] on
Binary resiliency.
The guideline here applies mostly to publicly exposed APIs.

#### MiMa

Use [MiMa][mima].

#### Public traits should contain `def` declarations only

- `val` or `var` in a `trait` results in code generated at subclass and in the artificial `Foo\$class.\$init\$`
- `lazy val` results in code generated at subclass

#### Abstract classes are also useful

[To trait, or not to trait?][pins_trait127].
Abstract classes are less flexible than traits, but traits pose more problems for binary compatibility. Abstract classes also have better Java interoperability.

#### Seal traits and abstract classes

If there's no need to keep a class open, seal it.

#### Finalize the leaf classes

If there's no need to keep a class open, finalize it.

#### Typeclass and subclass inheritance

The typeclass pattern with pure traits might ease maintaining binary compatibility more so than subclassing.

#### Avoid case classes, use sbt-datatype

Case classes involve code generation that makes it harder to maintain binary compatibility over time.

#### Prefer method overloading over default parameter values

Default parameter values are effectively code generation,
which makes them difficult to maintain.

### Other public API matters

Here are other guidelines about the sbt public API.

#### Avoid Stringly-typed programming

Define datatypes.

#### Avoid overuse of `def apply`

`def apply` should be reserved for factory methods
in a companion object that returns type `T`.

#### Use specific datatypes (`Vector`, `List`, or `Array`), rather than `Seq`

`scala.Seq` is `scala.collection.Seq`, which is not immutable.
Default to `Vector`. Use `List` if constant prepending is needed.
Use `Array` if Java interoperability is needed.
Note that using mutable collections is perfectly fine within the implementation.

#### Avoid calling `toSeq` or anything with side-effects on `Set`

`Set` is fine if you stick to set operations, like `contains` and `subsetOf`.
More often than not, `toSeq` is called explicitly or implicitly,
or some side-effecting method is called from `map`.
This introduces non-determinism to the code.

#### Avoid calling `toSeq` on `Map`

Same as above. This will introduce non-determinism.

#### Avoid functions and tuples in the signature, if Java interoperability is needed

Instead of functions and tuples, turn them into a trait.
This applies where interoperability is a concern, like implementing
incremental compilation.

### Style matters

#### Use scalafmt

sbt-houserules comes with scalafmt for formatting source code consistently.

#### Avoid procedure syntax

Declare an explicit `Unit` return.

#### Define instances of typeclasses in their companion objects, when possible

This style is encouraged:

```scala
final class FooID {}
object FooID {
  implicit val fooIdPicklerUnpicker: PicklerUnpickler[FooID] = ???
}
```

#### Implicit conversions for syntax (enrich-my-library pattern) should be imported

Avoid defining implicit converters in companion objects and package objects.

Suppose the IO module introduces a `URL` enrichment called `RichURI`,
and LibraryManagement introduces a `String` enrichment called `GroupID` (for `ModuleID` syntax).
These implicit conversions should be defined in an object named `syntax` in the respective package:

```scala
package sbt.io

object syntax {
  implicit def uriToRichURI(uri: URI): RichURI = new RichURI(uri)
}
```

When all the layers are available, the `sbt` package should also define an object called `syntax`
which forwards implicit conversions from all the layers:

```scala
package sbt

object syntax {
  implicit def uriToRichURI(uri: URI): io.RichURI = io.syntax.uriToRichURI(uri)
  ....
}
```
