---
out: Faq.html
---

  [Getting-Started]: Getting-Started.html
  [Basic-Def]: Basic-Def.html
  [Task-Graph]: Task-Graph.html
  [Running]: Running.html
  [Scopes]: Scopes.html
  [Library-Dependencies]: Library-Dependencies.html
  [Custom-Settings]: Custom-Settings.html
  [Multi-Project]: Multi-Project.html
  [Name-Index]: Name-Index.html
  [Mapping-Files]: Mapping-Files.html
  [Custom-Dependency-Configuration]: Custom-Dependency-Configuration.html
  [Testing]: Testing.html
  [additional-test-configurations]: Testing.html#additional-test-configurations
  [Library-Management]: Library-Management.html
  [Migrating-from-sbt-07x]: Migrating-from-sbt-07x.html
  [Update-Report]: Update-Report.html
  [Commands]: Commands.html
  [Build-State]: Build-State.html
  [Howto-Generating-Files]: Howto-Generating-Files.html
  [Contributing-to-sbt]: Contributing-to-sbt.html
  [Community-Plugins]: Community-Plugins.html
  [ivy-configurations]: Library-Management.html#ivy-configurations
  [Appending-Values]: Appending-Values.html
  [Caching]: Caching.html
  [ThisBuild]: Multi-Project.html#ThisBuild
  [Apidoc]: $apidoc_base$/api/sbt/index.html

Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------

### Project Information

#### What does the name "sbt" stand for, and why shouldn't it be written "SBT"?

**TL;DR** the name sbt doesn't stand for anything, it's just "sbt", and it should be written that way.

When Mark Harrah ([@harrah][]) first created the project he called it "Simple Build Tool", but in his
[first public announcement][sbt 0.3.2 announcement] of it he already referred to it as just "sbt".
Over time some have re-defined sbt to stand for "Scala Build Tool", but we believe that isn't accurate either
given it can be used to build Java-only projects.

Nowadays we just call sbt "sbt", and to reinforce that the name is no longer an [initialism][] we
always write it in all lowercase letters. However, we are cool with [酢豚][subuta] (subuta) as a nickname.

[@harrah]: https://github.com/harrah
[sbt 0.3.2 announcement]: https://www.scala-lang.org/old/node/392.html
[initialism]: https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/initialism
[subuta]: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E9%85%A2%E8%B1%9A

#### How do I get help?

-  See [How can I get help?](https://www.scala-sbt.org/community.html#how-can-I-get-help)

#### How do I report a bug?

-  See [Get Involved](https://www.scala-sbt.org/community.html#how-can-I-help)

#### How can I help?

-  See [Get Involved](https://www.scala-sbt.org/community.html#how-can-I-help)

### Usage

#### My last command didn't work but I can't see an explanation. Why?

sbt $app_version$ by default suppresses most stack traces and debugging
information. It has the nice side effect of giving you less noise on
screen, but as a newcomer it can leave you lost for explanation. To see
the previous output of a command at a higher verbosity, type
`last <task>` where `<task>` is the task that failed or that you want to
view detailed output for. For example, if you find that your `update`
fails to load all the dependencies as you expect you can enter:

```
> last update
```

and it will display the full output from the last run of the `update`
command.

#### How do I disable ansi codes in the output?

Sometimes sbt doesn't detect that ansi codes aren't supported and you
get output that looks like:

```
[0m[ [0minfo [0m]  [0mSet current project to root
```

or ansi codes are supported but you want to disable colored output. To
completely disable ansi codes, pass `-no-colors` option:

```
\$ sbt -no-colors
```

#### How can I start a Scala interpreter (REPL) with sbt project configuration (dependencies, etc.)?

In sbt's shell run `console`.

### Build definitions

#### What are the `:=`, `+=`, and `++=` methods?

These are methods on keys used to construct a `Setting` or a `Task`. The
Getting Started Guide covers all these methods, see
[.sbt build definition][Basic-Def],
[task graph][Task-Graph], and
[appending values][Appending-Values] for
example.

#### What is the `%` method?

It's used to create a `ModuleID` from strings, when specifying managed
dependencies. Read the Getting Started Guide about
[library dependencies][Library-Dependencies].

#### What does `ThisBuild / scalaVersion` mean?

`ThisBuild` acts as a special subproject name that you can use to define default
value for the build.
When you define one or more subprojects, and when the subproject does not define
`scalaVersion` key, it will look for `ThisBuild / scalaVersion`.

See [build-wide settings][ThisBuild].

#### What is `ModuleID`, `Project`, ...?

To figure out an unknown type or method, have a look at the
[Getting Started Guide][Getting-Started] if you have not. Also
try the [index][Name-Index] of commonly used methods, values, and
types, and the [API Documentation][Apidoc].

#### How do I add files to a jar package?

The files included in an artifact are configured by default by a task
`mappings` that is scoped by the relevant package task. The `mappings`
task returns a sequence `Seq[(File,String)]` of mappings from the file
to include to the path within the jar. See
[mapping files][Mapping-Files] for details on creating these mappings.

For example, to add generated sources to the packaged source artifact:

```scala
Compile / packageSrc / mappings ++= {
  import Path.{flat, relativeTo}
  val base = (Compile / sourceManaged).value
  val srcs = (Compile / managedSources).value
  srcs pair (relativeTo(base) | flat)
}
```

This takes sources from the `managedSources` task and relativizes them
against the `managedSource` base directory, falling back to a flattened
mapping. If a source generation task doesn't write the sources to the
`managedSource` directory, the mapping function would have to be
adjusted to try relativizing against additional directories or something
more appropriate for the generator.

#### How can I generate source code or resources?

See [Generating Files][Howto-Generating-Files].

#### How can a task avoid redoing work if the input files are unchanged?

See [Caching][Caching].

### Extending sbt

#### How can I add a new dependency configuration?

See [How to define a custom dependency configuration][Custom-Dependency-Configuration].

#### How do I add a test configuration?

See the [Additional test configurations][additional-test-configurations] section of
[Testing][Testing].

#### How can I create a custom run task, in addition to `run`?

This answer is extracted from a
[mailing list discussion](https://groups.google.com/group/simple-build-tool/browse_thread/thread/4c28ee5b7e18b46a/).

Read the Getting Started Guide up to
[custom settings][Custom-Settings] for background.

A basic run task is created by:

```scala
lazy val myRunTask = taskKey[Unit]("A custom run task.")

// this can go either in a `build.sbt` or the settings member
//   of a Project in a full configuration
fullRunTask(myRunTask, Test, "foo.Foo", "arg1", "arg2")
```

If you want to be able to supply arguments on the command line, replace
`TaskKey` with `InputKey` and `fullRunTask` with `fullRunInputTask`. The
`Test` part can be replaced with another configuration, such as
`Compile`, to use that configuration's classpath.

This run task can be configured individually by specifying the task key
in the scope. For example:

```scala
myRunTask / fork := true

myRunTask / javaOptions += "-Xmx6144m"
```

#### How should I express a dependency on an outside tool such as proguard?

Tool dependencies are used to implement a task and are not needed by
project source code. These dependencies can be declared in their own
configuration and classpaths. These are the steps:

1.  Define a new [configuration][ivy-configurations].
2.  Declare the tool
    [dependencies][Library-Management] in that
    configuration.
3.  Define a classpath that pulls the dependencies from the
    [Update Report][Update-Report] produced by `update`.
4.  Use the classpath to implement the task.

As an example, consider a `proguard` task. This task needs the ProGuard
jars in order to run the tool. First, define and add the new
configuration:

```scala
lazy val ProguardConfig = config("proguard").hide

ivyConfigurations += ProguardConfig
```

Then,

```scala
// Add proguard as a dependency in the custom configuration.
//  This keeps it separate from project dependencies.
libraryDependencies +=
   "net.sf.proguard" % "proguard" % "4.4" % ProguardConfig.name

// Extract the dependencies from the UpdateReport.
ProguardConfig / managedClasspath := {
    // these are the types of artifacts to include
    val artifactTypes: Set[String] = (ProguardConfig / classpathTypes).value
    Classpaths.managedJars(proguardConfig, artifactTypes, update.value)
}

// Use the dependencies in a task, typically by putting them
//  in a ClassLoader and reflectively calling an appropriate
//  method.
proguard := {
    val cp: Seq[File] = (ProguardConfig / managedClasspath).value
  // ... do something with , which includes proguard ...
}
```

Defining the intermediate classpath is optional, but it can be useful
for debugging or if it needs to be used by multiple tasks. It is also
possible to specify artifact types inline. This alternative `proguard`
task would look like:

```scala
proguard := {
   val artifactTypes = Set("jar")
    val cp =
      Classpaths.managedJars(proguardConfig, artifactTypes, update.value)
  // ... do something with , which includes proguard ...
}
```

#### How would I change sbt's classpath dynamically?

It is possible to register additional jars that will be placed on sbt's
classpath. Through
[State]($apidoc_base$/api/sbt/State\$.html), it is possible to obtain a
[xsbti.ComponentProvider](../api/xsbti/ComponentProvider.html), which
manages application components. Components are groups of files in the
`~/.sbt/boot/` directory and, in this case, the application is sbt. In
addition to the base classpath, components in the "extra" component are
included on sbt's classpath.

(Note: the additional components on an application's classpath are
declared by the `components` property in the `[main]` section of the
launcher configuration file `boot.properties`.)

Because these components are added to the `~/.sbt/boot/` directory and
`~/.sbt/boot/` may be read-only, this can fail. In this case, the user
has generally intentionally set sbt up this way, so error recovery is
not typically necessary (just a short error message explaining the
situation.)

#### Example of dynamic classpath augmentation

The following code can be used where a `State => State` is required,
such as in the `onLoad` setting (described below) or in a
[command][Commands]. It adds some files to the "extra"
component and reloads sbt if they were not already added. Note that
reloading will drop the user's session state.

```scala
def augment(extra: Seq[File])(s: State): State = {
    // Get the component provider
  val cs: xsbti.ComponentProvider = s.configuration.provider.components()

    // Adds the files in 'extra' to the "extra" component
    //   under an exclusive machine-wide lock.
    //   The returned value is 'true' if files were actually copied and 'false'
    //   if the target files already exists (based on name only).
  val copied: Boolean = s.locked(cs.lockFile, cs.addToComponent("extra", extra.toArray))

    // If files were copied, reload so that we use the new classpath.
  if(copied) s.reload else s
}
```

#### How can I take action when the project is loaded or unloaded?

See [How to take an action on startup](Howto-Startup.html).

#### Example of project load/unload hooks

The following example maintains a count of the number of times a project
has been loaded and prints that number:

```scala
{
  // the key for the current count
  val key = AttributeKey[Int]("loadCount")
  // the State transformer
  val f = (s: State) => {
    val previous = s get key getOrElse 0
    println("Project load count: " + previous)
    s.put(key, previous + 1)
  }
  Global / onLoad := {
    val previous = (Global / onLoad).value
    f compose previous
  }
}
```

### Errors

#### On project load, "Reference to uninitialized setting"

Setting initializers are executed in order. If the initialization of a
setting depends on other settings that has not been initialized, sbt
will stop loading.

In this example, we try to append a library to `libraryDependencies`
before it is initialized with an empty sequence.

```scala
libraryDependencies += "commons-io" % "commons-io" % "1.4" % "test"

disablePlugins(plugins.IvyPlugin)
```

To correct this, include the IvyPlugin plugin settings, which includes
`libraryDependencies := Seq()`. So, we just drop the explicit disabling.

```scala
libraryDependencies += "commons-io" % "commons-io" % "1.4" % "test"
```

A more subtle variation of this error occurs when using
[scoped settings][Scopes].

```scala
// error: Reference to uninitialized setting
settings = Seq(
  libraryDependencies += "commons-io" % "commons-io" % "1.2" % "test",
  fullClasspath := fullClasspath.value.filterNot(_.data.name.contains("commons-io"))
)
```

This setting varies between the test and compile scopes. The solution is
use the scoped setting, both as the input to the initializer, and the
setting that we update.

```scala
Compile / fullClasspath := (Compile / fullClasspath).value.filterNot(_.data.name.contains("commons-io"))
```

### Dependency Management

#### How do I resolve a checksum error?

This error occurs when the published checksum, such as a sha1 or md5
hash, differs from the checksum computed for a downloaded artifact, such
as a jar or pom.xml. An example of such an error is:

```
[warn]  problem while downloading module descriptor:
https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/commons-fileupload/commons-fileupload/1.2.2/commons-fileupload-1.2.2.pom:
invalid sha1: expected=ad3fda4adc95eb0d061341228cc94845ddb9a6fe computed=0ce5d4a03b07c8b00ab60252e5cacdc708a4e6d8 (1070ms)
```

The invalid checksum should generally be reported to the repository
owner (as
[was done](https://issues.sonatype.org/browse/MVNCENTRAL-46) for the
above error). In the meantime, you can temporarily disable checking with
the following setting:

```scala
checksums in update := Nil
```

See [library management][Library-Management] for details.

#### I've added a plugin, and now my cross-compilations fail!

This problem crops up frequently. Plugins are only published for the
Scala version that sbt uses (currently, 2.12). You can still *use*
plugins during cross-compilation, because sbt only looks for a 2.12
version of the plugin.

**... unless you specify the plugin in the wrong place!**

A typical mistake is to put global plugin definitions in
`~/.sbt/plugins.sbt`. **THIS IS WRONG.** `.sbt` files in `~/.sbt` are
loaded for *each* build--that is, for *each* cross-compilation. So, if
you build for Scala 2.11.0, sbt will try to find a version of the plugin
that's compiled for 2.11.0--and it usually won't. That's because it
doesn't *know* the dependency is a plugin.

To tell sbt that the dependency is an sbt plugin, make sure you define
your global plugins in a `.sbt` file in `~/.sbt/plugins/`. sbt knows
that files in `~/.sbt/plugins` are only to be used by sbt itself, not as
part of the general build definition. If you define your plugins in a
file under *that* directory, they won't foul up your cross-compilations.
Any file name ending in `.sbt` will do, but most people use
`~/.sbt/plugins/build.sbt` or `~/.sbt/plugins/plugins.sbt`.

### Miscellaneous

#### Where can I find plugins for $app_version$?

See [Community Plugins][Community-Plugins] for a list of currently available
plugins.
